As you get to know CD pipelines in general,
you'll eventually develop some intuition about how healthy your CD pipeline is or is not.
You'll also be able to easily spot
problem areas and be able to explain how they impact the whole process.
Whether you're still waiting on that intuition to
form or if you've had it for a long time,
it's helpful to have metrics to guide decisions and demonstrate impact empirically.
Let's take a look at a few metrics I use when I want to demonstrate
the level of health or impact of a CD pipeline.
Lead time to production shows the time that it takes for a feature to go from
introduction to the development team to final delivery and producing value.
This one is an easy metric to collect if you're using
a task management system to track feature grooming and deployments.
You just need to know the date and time for when
a feature was finished grooming or was declared ready for development.
For example, my team was authorized to work on a feature at 10 A.M. on January 5th.
You also need the date and time for when
that same feature was deployed successfully to production.
In my example, we just finished the same feature on January 20th at 11
A.M. Then just do some subtraction and you've got the lead time for that feature.
In my case, 15 days and one hour.
Do that a few times and average them together or show them on a line graph.
That's a great metric to demonstrate how CI/CD is impacting overall delivery time.
The rollback rate shows the quality of our deployments.
Of course, the rate should be low because
previous stages should filter out defected builds.
This metric shows the effectiveness of our pipeline since we
hope problems are caught before a rollback is needed.
The metric is calculated dividing the total number
of rollbacks by the total number of deployments.
For example, my team had 26 rollbacks out of 150 deployments last month.
That's a 17 percent rollback rate,
which we definitely need to work on.
This metric is a leading indicator for
the confidence of the business in the Dev team's ability to deliver.
For example, if rollbacks increase one week,
you can expect confidence to go down in the weeks following.
The same applies if rollbacks go down one week,
you should expect to see confidence to rise in the next weeks.
As the name suggests,
time to failure shows us how quickly we find failures.
The earlier, the better of course.
Here we just subtract build start time from the time at the point of failure.
For example, we had a build that started at
10.05 and finished with a failure at 10.13 A.M.
If we do our subtraction to discover the time to failure,
we see that it was eight minutes.
We should do that for every failure so that we can get an average to
improve on or graph the numbers to show upward or downward trends.
Production uptime is a classic metric with good reason.
Every point down from 100 percent shows the amount of time we're taking production down
because of a batch deployment or due to
complications from our chosen deployment strategy.
To calculate, just take the number of minutes in a day or a week or a month
that production has been up and divide that by the total number of minutes.
For example, there are 10,080 minutes in a week,
so we can use a seven-day sample.
In the last seven days,
my production instance has been down for a total of 35 minutes.
So my uptime is 99.7 percent over the last seven days.
Not bad, but I could definitely shoot for 99.8 next time.
Failed pipeline costs show the estimated amount of money spent on failed builds.
This metric encourages us to put cheaper jobs
earlier in the pipeline and to fail as quickly as possible.
It's a little harder to calculate,
but it can be really helpful in reducing costs.
To get this metric rolling,
you just need to estimate the cost for each job.
For example, a unit test job might run for three minutes.
The instance that runs the unit tests might cost you $0.10 a minute.
So you would say that the unit test job has an average cost of $0.30.
Other jobs might spin up new instances and incur other costs.
Add all those costs together and you'll know how much it costs to run your pipeline.
Pipelines that complete successfully are worth
every penny because they've delivered value.
But failed pipelines represent sunk costs.
You can average those amounts together or graph them to see trends.
The idea would be, of course,
to reduce the cost of failed builds by improving
your checks and validation so that the build can fail as early as possible.
Collecting and tracking metrics like these will help you keep
a big picture view of your CI/CD pipeline and the impact that it's making.
My advice is to collect as many of these metrics as you can before implementing CI/CD.
This will give you a snapshot of how things were before CI/CD was rolling.
Then when you're going full steam,
you'll have a great baseline to show how much better things have become.